Resting quietly, between the Bay of Bengal and the Andaman Sea are the hundreds of Andaman and Nikobar islands.
Around 30,000 people speak Nikobaris, a language unique to these islands.
Some of our literature was translated into Nikobaris in the early 2000s.
But the time came for them to have their own translation team.
So in 2007, the India branch sent two brothers to organize it.
And the brothers soon found many obstacles to overcome before the translation work could begin.
After searching for a while, we found potential candidates who could read, write and speak Nikobaris fluently.
And we encouraged them to use their skills for translation.
They really prepared their hearts to benefit from the training given.
I was excited and at the same time frightened.
I know the seriousness of the responsibility as translation is done for those who do not understand another language.
The brother who came to give training always told us,
if you make yourself available, Chahobar will make you capable.
The best location for work would have been on the Nikobar islands where the Nikobaris speaking people live.
But it was restricted after the devastating tsunami in 2004.
The brothers couldn't leave their jobs and go to the branch because it's over 1,000 miles away.
So the capital of the islands or blend was the best place to work.
Some had to travel 24 hours by sea from different islands to get there.
But there were a lot of difficulties.
Our language has a limited vocabulary.
That is a challenge for us.
But as a team, we try to resolve it.
During the preparation, if we find something which is difficult to translate,
the three of us give their suggestions and we try to find a simpler way of translating
so the target audience gets the point.
In December 2004, a tsunami devastated the islands,
leaving many in search of comfort.
During the tsunami period, those who never wanted to hear the good news,
wanted to come in this small room where we used to conduct our meetings.
So I told them the meeting can be conducted in the open ground where all the tsunami victims were gathering.
They agreed because they were eager to hear the truth.
Soon afterward, the tract would you like to know the truth was translated into Nicobaris.
It immediately had a positive effect.
When people saw the tract in their language, they were very happy.
On one island, more than 20 people read the tract.
Most of them have now dedicated themselves to serve Jehovah.
Among them were Bonafos Joseph and his wife, Paulina Lucas.
The last question affected us.
How can I find happiness in life?
We were happy because the way it answered was very simple and easy to understand.
We were moved to learn more about the truth.
There were other questions we never knew before,
such as what happens to us when we die and will suffering ever end?
Even though the tsunami almost naged away everything some of this brother's head,
they are now even more determined to use their abilities in Jehovah's service.
In the field ministry, I met a lady and gave her one of her tracks.
She was happy to see it in her own language because it is totally a new thing to them.
As we don't have any secular magazines in our own language.
People in the congregation benefit from it.
Even new Bible students are benefited who did not read well.
But now they can understand what they are reading because it is in their language.
It reaches their heart.
Nikobari literature has helped me to keep my faith strong.
Because now when I read, I can fully understand the meaning and meditate on what I am reading.
I feel God uses translation as a tool to help people to know more about Him
and attract them to the truth and save their life.
With Jehovah's blessing, the challenging work of translating the good news of his kingdom into Nikobaris
is contributing to the words of Isaiah 42-12.
Let them attribute glory to Jehovah and declare his praise in the islands.